hello it's ruby and today i'm going to
be filming
my annual what i read this year
this year i read more than i've ever
read before
most years i will read between 80 and
120 books
but this year i read 150 books which is
more than i've ever read before
and that is because of how different
this year was
the fact that we were in a national
lockdown for most of it
so as usual i'm going to be running you
through the books i
read and then at the end of the video i
will tell you my
top 10 books i read this year so i use
goodreads to track
all of my reading and if you want to
keep up to date with the books i'm
reading then
you can follow me on there i'll leave my
account link down below
just for a little bit of context too i
am an english literature student so
some of the books on here is required
reading and stuff that i had to read for
university
scrolling through it's actually crazy
like having to do this little women by
louisa may alcott
an absolute classic i was rereading this
after watching the greta gerwig film
the ones who walked away from omalas by
ursula k
lee guin which is a short story which
jade recommended to me good enough by
jan petraeu roy
cat slide by margaret atwood which is
one of my very favorite books of all
time
over the course of the year i also read
the four seasons poems i read each
season
in the corresponding season so i read
the spring poems in spring
so i finished that at the end of last
year and it is
possibly my favorite poetry anthology
i've ever read
roxanna by daniel defoe for the record
by david cameron which is an account of
david cameron's time
as prime minister do the work by stephen
prasfield
boy erased a memoir of identity faith
and family by
jared connolly this is about a boy who
is sent for gay conversion therapy
in america and it's harrowing but also
it's filled with so much hope as well
and it's one of the best memoirs i've
ever read the miracle morning
by hal alford which is basically about
how to form a really
good morning routine persuasion by jane
austen
which i didn't really like station 11 by
emily st
john mandel this was the first book of
the ruby reads book club and
it was a kind of strange book to read in
february that this is when the threats
of coronavirus were really starting out
and station 11 is about a pandemic which
destroys civilization as we know it
and so it was actually a really scary
book to read when i read it
the now habit by neil a fior normal
people by sally rooney which i didn't
actually like that much
english etiquette the motivation behind
the manners by the darling academy
you might follow her on instagram she is
so lovely and she actually sent me this
book to read
i love reading s-cap books speak by
laurie hulse anderson
brainwash so then i kind of went into a
spiel of
reading loads and loads of books for two
essays i had coming up for my modules
i read all of these books front back um
because i was just really interested in
these essays i was writing
because this is when i was still at
university and still had access to the
library
and so i was able to take these books
out and read them front to back
so the ones i read were the victorian
serial by linda k hughes
dickens's villains dickens and victorian
prince cultures by robert
l patton the cambridge companion to the
victorian novel
dickens and empire by grace moore emily
dickinson's home
by millicent todd bingham which is one
of the most
incredible books on emily dickinson if
you're wanting to learn more about emily
dickinson
this book gives you such a great insight
into her personal life i think had such
a huge bearing on her poetry and
yeah i would highly recommend this the
cambridge companion to emily dickinson
emily dickinson and the modern
consciousness a poet of our time by
kenneth stocks
the cambridge companion to charles
dickens and finally emily dickinson and
the religious imagination by linda
friedman which i
again really enjoyed next i read the
language of kindness and nurses story by
christy watson the distance home by
paula saunders which was
wonderful okay this is in my top 10
books it's so so great
it's that in rural provincial america
and it follows two siblings a girl and a
boy who are
completely different from each other the
girl is more kind of stereotypically
male
and the boy is more stereotypically
female and
it examines how these gender roles
affect the way that people see them
it's a really interesting study into
gender but also family politics and
it's just beautifully written as well
the ending had me crying
the martian chronicles by ray bradbury
island by
nikki singer the scorch trials which is
the second book in the maze runner
series by james dashner memories of a
catholic girlhood by mary mccarthy
death in venice by thomas mann the light
in the dark a winter journal by horatio
clare
which is wonderfully lyrical it's like
reading poetry
the sandman by eta hoffman then i read
hollow city and library of souls which
are books two and three in the miss
peregrine series
i reread the clique by lucy harrison
which was one of my favorite books when
i was like 11.
nutshell by ian mcewen such a wonderful
wonderful narrative style told from the
perspective of an unborn child
then i read the perfectionists and the
good girls which is the second book in
that series by sarah sheppard
which i really liked it was a very
fast-paced thriller i read both of these
in a day
letter writing it it's ethics and
etiquette by arthur wentworth hamilton
eaton
which was so great i love etiquette
books and this
is a victorian american victorian guide
to letter writing
murder on the orient express by agatha
christie we worked without tears
testimonies of the jewish son de
commando from auschwitz by gideon grief
mental illness in young adult literature
exploring real struggles through
fictional characters
by kaya jane richmond which is
non-fiction upper fourth at mallory
towers by enabling
the lion the witch in the wardrobe by
c.s lewis first time at mallory towers
by iana blyton
the vegetarian by han kang which i
really enjoyed actually i didn't expect
to enjoy it that much
my mom said it was really weird and so i
was put off reading it for a really long
time
i just thought the characters were
really believable mockingjay uh by
suzanne collings which is the third book
in the hunger games series
i loved the first book in the hunger
games series but i didn't really enjoy
the rest of the series
by tim buller i loved timbola but
this book wasn't that great
all souls by javier marias the
disappearing girl by heather topham wood
one star didn't like it slaughter house
five by
kurt vonnegut jr loved this can't
believe it took me so long to read
i had a kindle unlimited free trial and
some of david williams's books
were free to read with kindle unlimited
so i read rap burger and the midnight
gang
by david walliams when david williams
started releasing his books i was
kind of too old to read them and so i
only read miss distinct
obviously people say that williams is
the new royal doll and
i regret not being familiar with his
style so i'm glad i read these
i read the sickness by stephen r king i
thought this was by stephen king
it's not the education of an idealist by
samantha power samantha powell was the
united states u.n during
obama's presidency and over the summer i
was doing some work with young leaders
which was a youth summit
and the keynote speaker was samantha
powers so
i met her virtually then which is really
cool and i read
this beforehand the poet x by elizabeth
acevedo i read anne of avonlea by alan
montgomery the second book in the anne
of green gables series
the wasp factory by ian banks my friend
umi sent this to me
and it is fantastic it kind of reminds
me of we need to talk about kevin
but also mixed with ian mcewen the
silent patient
girls under pressure by jacqueline
wilson the great goddamn by meg rossoff
the lost girls of camp forevermore by
kim fu i was expecting this book to be a
ya book but it was
more of an adult book and i don't think
it really worked as that i think it
would have worked better as a ya book
flowers for algonan by david keys
wonderful book
eating animals by jonathan safran foer
probably the most important book i've
read this year
i would hugely highly recommend this to
anybody
let's explore diabetes with ours by
david tsedaris so hilarious oh my gosh i
did his masterclass in writing
earlier this year and i was inspired to
read his short stories after this and
he is just hilarious i think he's the
best
comic writer of our time then i did a
readathon where i read some of my
favorite children's books
so i read hattie feather by jacqueline
wilson alice through the looking glass
by lewis carroll
bad girls by jacqueline wilson the folk
of the far away tree by enid blyton
and scarlet by kathy cassidy then i
reread harry potter in the chamber of
secrets
i read the second book in the a good
girl's guide to murder series good girl
bad blood fasting girls the history of
anorexia nervosa
i read this in preparation for one of my
modules and
it was a really interesting structure
sign and play by
jack derrida which is very confusing but
i did like it i'm glad i read it
extremely loud and incredibly close by
jonathan zafran faux one of my favorite
books
everything is illuminated by jonathan
safran vera again the snow child
is based on the russian folk tale and
read it this winter if you can
in therapy by susie orback taking up
space the black girls manifesto for
change
which was so enlightening it was a study
of the education system and and how in
school and university you have black
girls being
barred from education it's such an
important read and i would highly
recommend it
iq 84 by mike dickinson my name is
monster by katie hale which i
loved call me by your name which was
amazing oh my gosh
i've had such mixed thoughts on this
i've got friends who really didn't like
this book but
it was so lyrical and so beautifully
written
dark academia in a book 20 000 leagues
under the sea by jules verne
the grim grotto which is the 11th book
in a series of unfortunate events by
lemony snicket
released by patrick ness the testament
of mary the perks of being a wolf flower
by stephen kobowski
the green gage summer by rumor goddamn
the number one ladies detective agency
by alexander mccall smith
eve cornwell actually sent this to me as
a surprise she said i'd like it
and it was so fantastic i'd highly
recommend it modern love
by john meredith a collection of poems
the taking of annie thorne by cj tudor
then i read the fourth book in the miss
peregrine series which is a map of days
so uh this is where terms started up
again for university and so a lot more
of my reading is required reading
the spanish tragedy by thomas kidd rip
van winkle by washington irving and also
the legend of sleepy hollow by
washington irving
the professor's house by willa cartha
tamblyn the great
parts one and two the american scholar
self-reliance
compensation by ralph waldo emerson
which is a fantastic essay
the birthmark by nathanael hawthorne
bartleby the scrivener by hermann
melville
the may pole of marymount by nathaniel
hawthorne
the comedy of aries by william
shakespeare the mask of blackness by ben
johnson
narrative of the life of frederick
douglass incident in the life of a slave
girl by harriet and jacobs i reread
harry potter and the philosopher's stone
song of myself by walt whitman the poet
by ralph waldo
emerson roderick hudson by henry james
the unadoptables by hannah tuke anthony
and cleopatra by william shakespeare
the tragedy of mariam by elizabeth carey
the adventures of huckleberry finn by
mark twain
episene or the silent woman by ben
johnson
i reread harry potter and the prisoner
of azkaban observations which is a
collection of poetry by
marianne moore philasta by francis
beaumont
emily dickinson and him culture
tradition and experience by victoria ann
morgan
the changeling by middleton and rowley
the miniaturist
by jesse burton a raisin in the sun by
lorraine hansbury
the english mall by richard broome the
wasteland by t.s
eliot the warlord experiment by alex
nathan
citizen an american lyric by claudia
rankine
this was so great this was a required
reading but
the writing style is just so unique the
only person i can compare it to really
is emily dickinson
so then i read the second and third
books in the his dark materials series
by philip pullman
that that's the subtle knife and the
amber spyglass daddy longlegs by jean
webster
tracks by louise erdich which is a
native american book
the young oxford book of christmas
stories by dennis pepper
the nutcracker by etio i can't speak
anymore oh my gosh the nutcracker by eta
hoffman oh my gosh why can't i speak
the velveteen rabbit by marjorie
williams bianco a christmas carol by
charles dickens
winter's child by angela mcallister the
happiness equation
by neil pass reacher wouldn't recommend
this don't read it
why we sleep unlocking the power of
sleeps and dreams by matthew walker
the mystery of the midnight peacock by
catherine woodfine
pine by francine teen hercule poira's
christmas
by agatha christie castel's household
guide
to every department of practical life
volume one the snow queen by hans
christie and anderson
where the crawdads sing and finally i
re-read as i do every year
a little princess by francis hodgson
burnett a little princess is my favorite
book of all time
and i like to reread it every year i
think my peak
contentment is reading that book with a
mug of my
current favorite tea okay so that all
the books i read and now i'm going to
tell you my top
10 books of the year okay so i was going
to do tan i'm actually going to do 21
because tan
is just too hard okay so my favorite
books i read this year
were wiry sleep which is a non-fiction
book running through the importance of
sleep and sleep science and current
sleep research
and this has actually completely
reformed the way that i look at sleep
and
as a result one of my newest resolutions
is to really prioritize getting enough
sleep every night
pine by francine tune which i read in a
readathon a couple days ago
it's like a provincial thriller which
are like the two best things mixed
together it's um
an absolute page turner but also lyrical
and
literary where the core dad's sing which
oh my goodness
is incredible you've probably heard
people raving about this so much but
it's fantastic
the miracle morning the four seasons
poetry collection
as i said this is my new favorite poetry
anthology i really want to try more of
the
everyman's poetry anthologies because
from this one it seems like they are
very well selected
the distance home by paula sanders
memories of a catholic girl hood
by mary mccarthy this is a memoir but
it blurs the boundary between
non-fiction and fiction
death in venice by thomas mann this is
really short but
gives you a lot to think about i've also
put the miss peregrine's home peculiar
children series
because i read three of the books this
year and i really loved them
nutshell by ian mcewen letter writing
it's ethics and etiquette
the vegetarian the wasp factory the
great goddamn
eating animals flowers for algenon let's
explore diabetes with owls
my name is monster call me by your name
the professor house
and finally the green gage summer anyway
thank you so much for watching this
video i'm sorry if it's really long
i'm going to try and pour it down as
much as i can but i wanted to obviously
include all of the books in this video
sorry as well i didn't talk through all
of these books in very much detail
this book would be like four hours long
if i did but
i hope you enjoyed watching it i hope
you can walk away with some good book
recommendations
and i hope that you have a productive
week
[Music]
you